---
layout: post
title:  "Building my pentesting homelab"
date:   2019-07-20 15:53:45 +0800
categories: infosec
---
> How I built my homelab for pentesting?

In my first post, I said I would eventually build a pentesting home lab to test out vulnerable vms. Although this might not be the best implementation, I'm trying to work with what I have and practice my infosec skills. Here it is...

## Hardware
Although there are a wide range of options available (cloud, dedicated hardware, desktop), I've decided to use my 2013 desktop as a starting point for this project.

Here's an outline of the essential hardware parts needed.
- Processor
  - For hardware virtualization to work, a processor with Intel VT (i.e. an i3,i5,i7) is preferred
- RAM
  - Since VM's are generally memory hungry, prepare anything from 16GB to 32GB of RAM ready.
- Hard Drive
  - SSDs (solid state drives) are preferred due to their faster read-and-write speed.

## Network
Since most VM's are meant to be vulnerable and attacked, it was best to place the machines on an isolated network.
We could either establish a virtual network with virtualization software (i.e. pfsense router vm) to segregate traffic, or use a VLAN switch for this task.

In this instance, I used a *pfsense vm* as my bare metal router to segregate traffic.

## OS
One can choose typical server os's for virtualization/servers, whilst other's might use typical operating systems and run virtualization on it.

In order to closely mimic enterprise scenarios where most attacks occur, I've decided to run *Ubuntu Server 18.0.1*.

## Hypervisor

While there are a plethora of choices for hypervisors (i.e. Xenserver, ESXi, ProxMox ), I went with *KVM*, a virtualization module that turns the Linux Kernel into a hypervisor. Since it is embedded within the Linux Kernel, it is also absolutely free. With Kimchi and Wok, a HTML5-based web interface for managing VM's, I can easily spin up a VM in the web interface and VNC into it.

## Router-specifics

Whilst the lab is kept separate from the home network, I've setup the Ubuntu Server Host OS to allow ssh connections from outside networks. This is done through a technique called port-forwarding. This would allow me to have access to my Ubuntu Server anywhere in the world.

On the other hand, my pfsense virtual router also hosts the DNS and DHCP server. While it is advised to move them to a dedicated server, this will suffice for now.

## TLDR;
Hardware:
  - Intel i5 Quad core
  - 32GB DDR3
  - Samsung EVO 256GB drive
Software:
  - Runs on Ubuntu Server 18.0.1 and uses KVM for virtualization.
  - Has Kimchi and Wok installed for managing VM's remotely.
  - Has a virtual pfSense router between lab and network.
  - Port-forwarding and UFW firewall rules allows outside networks to connect to Ubuntu Server through ssh
  - VNC is also enabled and can be used with RealVNC