---
layout: post
title:  "Poker game"
date:   2019-05-28 20:18:25 +0800
categories: ds
---

> This is a poker game implementation in python

For this project, I implemented a simple poker game utilizing classes, methods and different libraries such as itertools, collections and itemgetter.

To start, I setup a few global variables to prevent the re-declaration of variables.

```python
  # Global Variables
  cardNum = ['2','3','4','5','6','7','8','9','10','J','Q','K','A'] # for printing only
  numValues = {"2":2, "3":3, "4":4, "5":5, "6":6, "7":7, "8":8, "9":9, "10":10, "J":11, "Q":12, "K":13, "A":14} # for comparing values
  suits = ['Clubs', 'Spades', 'Hearts', 'Diamonds'] # suits
```

Now that we got that out of the way, I declared 2 classes: Dealer and Player.

## Dealer class

For this class, I have a few class variables. The main function of this class is to deal the hands to players and store an instance of the players (*self.players*) and their hand types (*self.player_hands*).

I also have the following functions to run the entire game after instantiating an instance of the dealer class.

They go in the order of:
- deal()   -> to deal cards
- pretty_print()   -> to show players their hands
- determine_hand_type()  -> to determine the type of hands they have (straight, pair, flush etc.)
- find_winner()  -> to find the winner

```python
class Dealer:
  def __init__(self, players):
    print("Dealer's dealing \n")

    # Class Variables
    self.used = []
    self.players = players
    self.player_hands = {}

    # Run functions automatically
    self.deal()
    self.pretty_print()
    self.determine_hand_type()

    # Figure out results
    self.find_winner()
    pass
```

A detailed implementation of this class and the functions could be found on my github repository.

## Player class

For this class, I mainly use it to store the name of the user and the list of cards the player holds (their hand).

Detailed doc of how variables are used are as follows:
- name (name of user)
- cards (list of cards the user holds)
- cardsComp (a copy of the list of cards, but with the substituted value for ranks such as Ace, Jack, Queen, King)
- type (details the type of hands a player has, such as straight, flush etc.)
- highcard (the highest card value in a player's hand, allows Dealer class to easily pick the winner in a high card situation)

```python
class Player:
  def __init__(self, name):
    self.name = name
    self.cards = []
    self.cardsComp = []
    self.type = ""
    self.high_card = 0
```

## Rundown of the game

The game basically follows the basic poker rules:

1. Royal flush
> A, K, Q, J, 10, all the same suit.

2. Straight flush
> Five cards in a sequence, all in the same suit.

3. Four of a kind
> All four cards of the same rank.

4. Full house
> Three of a kind with a pair.

5. Flush
> Any five cards of the same suit, but not in a sequence.

6. Straight
> Five cards in a sequence, but not of the same suit.

7. Three of a kind
> Three cards of the same rank.

8. Two pair
> Two different pairs.

9. Pair
> Two cards of the same rank.

10. High Card
> When you haven’t made any of the hands above, the highest card plays. In the example below, the jack plays as the highest card.

## Flaw in implementation

The only flaw in the implementation is that: This game is a naive implementation of the poker game by just comparing high cards once we find the duplicate card type. Needs fixing.

## Example rundown of the game

```bash
python poker_game.py 3

Your name please: Player A
Your name please: Player B
Your name please: Player C
Dealer's dealing 

Player A's hand: 

8 of Clubs
3 of Spades
3 of Diamonds
4 of Spades
7 of Clubs


Player B's hand: 

6 of Spades
J of Diamonds
K of Spades
K of Clubs
7 of Diamonds


Player C's hand: 

6 of Diamonds
5 of Diamonds
10 of Hearts
5 of Spades
4 of Diamonds


The winner is Player B ! Winner won by High Card
```
